# fslBET
[Documentation](https://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fslwiki/BET)
**fslBET** is **FSL's** built in skull-extraction tool. It's known for being robust in literature as it "uses locally adaptive intensity thresholds to distinguish brain and non-brain voxels, it generalizes to a variety of contrasts, such as T1w, T2w, and PDw." (Hoopes et al., 2022)

With skull removal, more skull is better than less skull that eats into your cortex. In my testing with our dataset the **"robust"** function provided by **BET2** was able to fairly accurately extract our dataset's brain at `-f` = .15 to .2

```bash
bet <input> <output> -f .2 -R
```

# SynthStrip
[Hoopes et al. (2022)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2022.119474)

## What is SynthStrip
[Documentation](https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/docs/synthstrip/)
SynthStrip is a skull-stripping tool that extracts brain signal from a landscape of image types, ranging across imaging modality, contrast, resolution, and subject population. It leverages a deep learning strategy that synthesizes arbitrary training images from segmentation maps to optimize a robust model agnostic to acquisition specifics.

## Why this over fslBET

With regards to **T1w** image, **SynthStrip** performs better than **fslBET**, **ROBEX**, **3DSS**, **BEaST**, **FSW**, and **DMBE** in skull stripping on most validation datasets:

| **Dataset**              | **Res. ($mm^3$)**   |
| -------------------- | --------------- |
| **IXI T1w MRI**      | 0.9 x 0.9 x 1.2 |
| **FSM T1w MPRAGE**   | 1.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 |
| **ASL T1w MPRAGE**   | 1.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 |
| **QIN T1w 2D-FLASH** | 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.6 |

It performed worse on **IXI T1w MRI** compared to **BET** although it had less variability in its skull-stripping - measured by mean surface distance between computed and ground-truth binary brain masks. 

The key part is **SynthStrip's** overwhelming consistency over other skull-stripping methods on all **T1w** datasets, but especially the **QIN T1w 2D-FLASH** set which is anisotropic and of really **high resolution**. 

If we plan on stripping before downsampling, or no downsampling at all, this would be important to us as our dataset is 0.48 x 0.48 x 1 mm, which is not only extremely high but also anisotropic. However, given that the inverse is more likely to be true in established pipelines, the consistency and accuracy of **SynthStrip** still puts it ahead of other options. 

It is worth noting that this is compared to **fslBET's** base strip and not **BET2's** "robust" function, which as I've noted performs quite well on our dataset. 

```bash
python synthstrip-docker -i input -o stripped
```